Color temperature - Wikipedia Jump to content Main menu Main menu move to sidebar hide Navigation Main page Contents Current events Random article About Wikipedia Contact us Contribute Help Learn to edit Community portal Recent changes Upload file Special pages Search Search Appearance Donate Create account Log in Personal tools Donate Create account Log in Contents move to sidebar hide (Top) 1 Categorizing different lighting Toggle Categorizing different lighting subsection 1.1 The Sun 1.2 Infinite temperature 2 Color theory 3 Applications Toggle Applications subsection 3.1 Lighting 3.2 Aquaculture 3.3 Digital photography 3.4 Photographic film 3.5 Desktop publishing 3.6 TV, video, and digital still cameras 3.7 Artistic application via control of color temperature 4 Correlated color temperature 5 Color rendering index 6 Spectral power distribution 7 Color temperature in astronomy 8 See also 9 References 10 Further reading 11 External links Toggle the table of contents Color temperature 34 languages العربية Català Čeština Dansk Deutsch Español Eesti Euskara فارسی Suomi Français Galego Magyar Bahasa Indonesia Italiano 日本語 한국어 മലയാളം Nederlands Norsk nynorsk Norsk bokmål Polski Português Română Русский සිංහල Slovenčina Svenska தமிழ் ไทย Türkçe Українська Tiếng Việt 中文 Edit links Article Talk English Read Edit View history Tools Tools move to sidebar hide Actions Read Edit View history General What links here Related changes Upload file Permanent link Page information Cite this page Get shortened URL Switch to legacy parser Print/export Download as PDF Printable version In other projects Wikimedia Commons Wikidata item Appearance move to sidebar hide From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia Property of light sources related to black-body radiation This article needs more citations . Please help improve this article by adding citations to reliable sources . Unsourced material may be challenged and removed . Find sources: "Color temperature" – news · newspapers · books · scholar · JSTOR ( June 2012 ) ( Learn how and when to remove this message ) The CIE 1931 x,y chromaticity space, also showing the chromaticities of black-body light sources of various temperatures ( Planckian locus ), and lines of constant correlated color temperature Color temperature is a parameter describing the color of a visible light source by comparing it to the color of light emitted by an idealized opaque, non-reflective body, known as a black body . The temperature of the ideal emitter that matches the color most closely is defined as the color temperature of the original visible light source. The color temperature scale describes only the color of light emitted by a light source, which may actually be at a different (and often much lower) temperature. [ 1 ] [ 2 ] Color temperature has applications in lighting , [ 3 ] photography , [ 4 ] videography , [ 5 ] publishing , [ 6 ] manufacturing , and other fields. In practice, color temperature is most meaningful for light sources that correspond somewhat closely to the color of some black body, i.e., light in a range going from red to orange to yellow to white to bluish white. Although the concept of correlated color temperature extends the definition to any visible light, the color temperature of a green or a purple light rarely is useful information. Color temperature is conventionally expressed in kelvins , using the symbol K, which are units for absolute temperature. Categorizing different lighting [ edit ] Color temperatures and example sources Temperature Source 1,000 K Most commercial electric heating elements 1,700 K Match flame, low-pressure sodium lamps (LPS/SOX) 1,850 K Candle flame, sunset / sunrise 2,400 K Standard incandescent lamps 2,550 K Soft white incandescent lamps 2,700 K "Soft white" compact fluorescent and LED lamps 3,000 K Warm white compact fluorescent and LED lamps 3,200 K Studio lamps, photofloods , etc. 3,350 K Studio "CP" light 5,000 K Horizon daylight , tubular fluorescent lamps or cool white/daylight compact fluorescent and LED lamps 5,500–6,000 K Vertical daylight, electronic flash 6,200 K Xenon short-arc lamp [ 7 ] 6,500 K Daylight, overcast, daylight LED lamps 6,500–9,500 K LCD or CRT screens 15,000–27,000 K Clear blue poleward sky [ inconsistent ] ∞ K Theoretical upper limit based on black-body radiation calculations Wien ∞ K Theoretical upper limit based on Wien's approximation [ 8 ] law The black-body radiance (B λ ) vs. wavelength (λ) curves for the visible spectrum . The vertical axes of Planck's law plots building this animation were proportionally transformed to keep equal areas between functions and horizontal axis for wavelengths 380–780 nm. K indicates the color temperature in kelvins , and M indicates the color temperature in micro reciprocal degrees. The color temperature of the electromagnetic radiation emitted from an ideal black body is defined as its surface temperature in kelvins , or alternatively in micro reciprocal degrees (mired). [ 9 ] This permits the definition of a standard by which light sources are compared. To the extent that a hot surface emits thermal radiation but is not an ideal black-body radiator, the color temperature of the light is not the actual temperature of the surface. An incandescent lamp 's light is thermal radiation, and the bulb approximates an ideal black-body radiator, so its color temperature is essentially the temperature of the filament. Thus a relatively low temperature emits a dull red and a high temperature emits the almost white of the traditional incandescent light bulb. Metal workers are able to judge the temperature of hot metals by their color, from dark red to orange-white and then white (see red heat ). Many other light sources, such as fluorescent lamps , or light emitting diodes ( LEDs ) emit light primarily by processes other than thermal radiation. This means that the emitted radiation does not follow the form of a black-body spectrum . These sources are assigned what is known as a correlated color temperature (CCT). CCT is the color temperature of a black-body radiator which to human color perception most closely matches the light from the lamp. Because such an approximation is not required for incandescent light, the CCT for an incandescent light is simply its unadjusted temperature, derived from comparison to a black-body radiator. The Sun [ edit ] The Sun closely approximates a black-body radiator. The effective temperature, defined by the total radiative power per square unit, is 5,772 K. [ 10 ] The color temperature of sunlight above the atmosphere is about 5,900 K. [ 11 ] The Sun may appear red, orange, yellow, or white from Earth, depending on its position in the sky. The changing color of the Sun over the course of the day is mainly a result of the scattering of sunlight and is not due to changes in black-body radiation. Rayleigh scattering of sunlight by Earth's atmosphere causes the blue color of the sky, which tends to scatter blue light more than red light. Some daylight in the early morning and late afternoon (the golden hours ) has a lower ("warmer") color temperature due to increased scattering of shorter-wavelength sunlight by atmospheric particulates – an optical phenomenon called the Tyndall effect . Daylight has a spectrum similar to that of a black body with a correlated color temperature of 6,500 K ( D65 viewing standard) or 5,500 K (daylight-balanced photographic film standard). Approximation of the hues of the Planckian locus as a function of the kelvin temperature, rendered with a white point near 6,500 K, not accounting for chromatic adaptation For colors based on black-body theory, blue occurs at higher temperatures, whereas red occurs at lower temperatures. This is the opposite of the cultural associations attributed to colors, in which "red" is "hot", and "blue" is "cold". [ 12 ] Infinite temperature [ edit ] The color of an infinitely hot blackbody. #94b1ff The color of an infinitely hot blackbody according to Wien's law . #7f9fff As the temperature of a black-body radiator approaches positive infinity, its color converges to CIE xy coordinates (0.2399, 0.2340), [ 13 ] corresponding to an sRGB value of (148, 177, 255) or #94b1ff, [ 14 ] a light blue color known as perano. [ 15 ] This is because of the Rayleigh-Jeans law , which states that at frequencies much lower than the peak frequency of a black-body radiator, spectral power is inversely proportional to the fourth power of the wavelength. There's also Wien's approximation [ 16 ] law, which features a deeper color of infinite temperature, located a bit farther from the Planck's limit towards blue. sRGB value: 127, 159, 255; HEX code: #7f9fff. Color theory [ edit ] Main article: Color theory This property of illumination is distinct from artistic color theory where color temperatures over 5000 K are called "cool colors" (bluish), while lower color temperatures (2700–3000 K) are called "warm colors" (yellowish), exactly the opposite of black-body radiation. "Warm" and "cool" in this context is with respect to a traditional aesthetic association of color to warmth or coolness , not a reference to physical black body temperature. By the hue-heat hypothesis , low color temperatures psychologically evoke warmth, while high color temperatures evoke coolness. The spectral peak of warm-colored light is closer to infrared, and most natural warm-colored light sources emit significant infrared radiation. The fact that "warm" lighting in this sense actually has a "cooler" color temperature often leads to confusion. [ 17 ] Applications [ edit ] Color temperature (right) of various light sources (left) Lighting [ edit ] Color temperatures of common electric lamps Graph of color temperature comfort zones. For lighting building interiors, it is often important to take into account the color temperature of illumination. A warmer (i.e., a lower color temperature) light is often used in public areas to promote relaxation, while a cooler (higher color temperature) light is used to enhance concentration, for example in schools and offices. [ 18 ] CCT dimming for LED technology is regarded as a difficult task, since binning, age and temperature drift effects of LEDs change the actual color value output. Here feedback loop systems are used, for example with color sensors, to actively monitor and control the color output of multiple color mixing LEDs. [ 19 ] Aquaculture [ edit ] In fishkeeping , color temperature has different functions and foci in the various branches. In freshwater aquaria, color temperature is generally of concern only for producing a more attractive display. [ citation needed ] Lights tend to be designed to produce an attractive spectrum, sometimes with secondary attention paid to keeping the plants in the aquaria alive. In a saltwater/reef aquarium , color temperature is an essential part of tank health. Within about 400 to 3000 nanometers, light of shorter wavelength can penetrate deeper into water than longer wavelengths, [ 20 ] [ 21 ] [ 22 ] providing essential energy sources to the algae hosted in (and sustaining) coral. This is equivalent to an increase of color temperature with water depth in this spectral range. Because coral typically live in shallow water and receive intense, direct tropical sunlight, the focus was once on simulating this situation with 6500 K lights. Digital photography [ edit ] In digital photography , the term color temperature sometimes refers to remapping of color values to simulate variations in ambient color temperature. Most digital cameras and raw image software provide presets simulating specific ambient values (e.g., sunny, cloudy, tungsten, etc.) while others allow explicit entry of white balance values in kelvins. These settings vary color values along the blue–yellow axis, while some software includes additional controls (sometimes labeled "tint") adding the magenta–green axis, and are to some extent arbitrary and a matter of artistic interpretation. [ 23 ] Photographic film [ edit ] This section does not cite any sources . Please help improve this section by adding citations to reliable sources . Unsourced material may be challenged and removed . ( June 2012 ) ( Learn how and when to remove this message ) Photographic emulsion film does not respond to lighting color identically to the human retina or visual perception. An object that appears to the observer to be white may turn out to be very blue or orange in a photograph. The color balance may need to be corrected during printing to achieve a neutral color print. The extent of this correction is limited since color film normally has three layers sensitive to different colors and when used under the "wrong" light source, every layer may not respond proportionally, giving odd color casts in the shadows, although the mid-tones may have been correctly white-balanced under the enlarger. Light sources with discontinuous spectra, such as fluorescent tubes, cannot be fully corrected in printing either, since one of the layers may barely have recorded an image at all. Photographic film is made for specific light sources (most commonly daylight film and tungsten film ), and, used properly, will create a neutral color print. Matching the sensitivity of the film to the color temperature of the light source is one way to balance color. If tungsten film is used indoors with incandescent lamps, the yellowish-orange light of the tungsten incandescent lamps will appear as white (3200 K) in the photograph. Color negative film is almost always daylight-balanced, since it is assumed that color can be adjusted in printing (with limitations, see above). Color transparency film, being the final artefact in the process, has to be matched to the light source or filters must be used to correct color. Filters on a camera lens, or color gels over the light source(s) may be used to correct color balance. When shooting with a bluish light (high color temperature) source such as on an overcast day, in the shade, in window light, or if using tungsten film with white or blue light, a yellowish-orange filter will correct this. For shooting with daylight film (calibrated to 5600 K) under warmer (low color temperature) light sources such as sunsets, candlelight or tungsten lighting , a bluish (e.g. #80A) filter may be used. More-subtle filters are needed to correct for the difference between, say 3200 K and 3400 K tungsten lamps or to correct for the slightly blue cast of some flash tubes, which may be 6000 K. [ 24 ] If there is more than one light source with varied color temperatures, one way to balance the color is to use daylight film and place color-correcting gel filters over each light source. Photographers sometimes use color temperature meters. These are usually designed to read only two regions along the visible spectrum (red and blue); more expensive ones read three regions (red, green, and blue). However, they are ineffective with sources such as fluorescent or discharge lamps, whose light varies in color and may be harder to correct for. Because this light is often greenish, a magenta filter may correct it. More sophisticated colorimetry tools can be used if such meters are lacking. [ 24 ] Desktop publishing [ edit ] This article needs more citations . Please help improve this article by adding citations to reliable sources . Unsourced material may be challenged and removed . Find sources: "Color temperature" – news · newspapers · books · scholar · JSTOR ( June 2025 ) ( Learn how and when to remove this message ) In the desktop publishing industry, it is important to know a monitor's color temperature. Color matching software, such as Apple's ColorSync Utility for MacOS, measures a monitor's color temperature and then adjusts its settings accordingly. This enables on-screen color to more closely match printed color. Common monitor color temperatures, along with matching standard illuminants in parentheses, are as follows: 5000 K (CIE D50) 5500 K (CIE D55) 6500 K ( D65 ) 7500 K (CIE D75) 9300 K D50 is scientific shorthand for a standard illuminant : the daylight spectrum at a correlated color temperature of 5000 K. Similar definitions exist for D55, D65 and D75. Designations such as D50 are used to help classify color temperatures of light tables and viewing booths. When viewing a color slide at a light table, it is important that the light be balanced properly so that the colors are not shifted towards the red or blue. Digital cameras , web graphics, DVDs , etc., are normally designed for a 6500 K color temperature. The sRGB standard commonly used for images on the Internet stipulates a 6500 K display white point . Microsoft Windows prior to Windows 10 uses sRGB as the default display color space, and 6500 K as the default display color temperature. Windows 10 1607 supports High Dynamic Range . [ 25 ] Windows 11 22H2 has support for Auto Color Management (ACM), which helped further optimize OLED and/or wide-color gamut monitors by reading DisplayID data. [ 26 ] Apple iOS , iPadOS and macOS currently use sRGB and DCI-P3 as the default display color spaces. [ 27 ] TV, video, and digital still cameras [ edit ] This section does not cite any sources . Please help improve this section by adding citations to reliable sources . Unsourced material may be challenged and removed . ( June 2012 ) ( Learn how and when to remove this message ) The NTSC and PAL TV norms call for a compliant TV screen to display an electrically black and white signal (minimal color saturation) at a color temperature of 6500 K. On many consumer-grade televisions, there is a very noticeable deviation from this requirement. However, higher-end consumer-grade televisions can have their color temperatures adjusted to 6500 K by using a preprogrammed setting or a custom calibration. Current versions of ATSC explicitly call for the color temperature data to be included in the data stream, but old versions of ATSC allowed this data to be omitted. In this case, current versions of ATSC cite default colorimetry standards depending on the format. Both of the cited standards specify a 6500 K color temperature. Most video and digital still cameras can adjust for color temperature by zooming into a white or neutral colored object and setting the manual "white balance" (telling the camera that "this object is white"); the camera then shows true white as white and adjusts all the other colors accordingly. White-balancing is necessary especially when indoors under fluorescent lighting and when moving the camera from one lighting situation to another. Most cameras also have an automatic white balance function that attempts to determine the color of the light and correct accordingly. While these settings were once unreliable, they are much improved in today's digital cameras and produce an accurate white balance in a wide variety of lighting situations. However, in NTSC-J and NTSC-C standards, 9300 K color temperature is recommended. TVs and projectors sold in Japan, South Korea, China, Hong Kong, Taiwan and Philippines are usually adopt 9300 K as default settings. [ 28 ] [ 29 ] But for compatibility reasons, computer monitors sold in these country/region are usually adopt 6500 K as default settings; these color temperature settings are usually tuneable in OSD menu. Now many FHD and UHD streaming dramas and films are produced using Rec. 709 or DCI-P3 , which based on 6300 K or 6500 K color temperature. [ 30 ] [ 31 ] Artistic application via control of color temperature [ edit ] This section does not cite any sources . Please help improve this section by adding citations to reliable sources . Unsourced material may be challenged and removed . ( June 2012 ) ( Learn how and when to remove this message ) The house above appears a light cream during midday, but seems to be bluish white here in the dim light before full sunrise. Note the color temperature of the sunrise in the background. Video camera operators can white-balance objects that are not white, downplaying the color of the object used for white-balancing. For instance, they can bring more warmth into a picture by white-balancing off something that is light blue, such as faded blue denim; in this way white-balancing can replace a filter or lighting gel when those are not available. Cinematographers do not "white balance" in the same way as video camera operators; they use techniques such as filters, choice of film stock, pre-flashing , and, after shooting, color grading , both by exposure at the labs and also digitally. Cinematographers also work closely with set designers and lighting crews to achieve the desired color effects. [ 32 ] For artists, most pigments and papers have a cool or warm cast, as the human eye can detect even a minute amount of saturation. Grey mixed with orange is a warm grey. Blue creates a cool grey. This sense of temperature is the reverse of that of real temperature; bluer is described as "cooler" even though it corresponds to a higher-temperature black body . Warm grey Cool grey 6% orange 6% blue Lighting designers sometimes select filters by color temperature, commonly to match light that is theoretically white. Since fixtures using discharge type lamps produce a light of a considerably higher color temperature than do tungsten lamps , using the two in conjunction could potentially produce a stark contrast, so sometimes fixtures with HID lamps , commonly producing light of 6000–7000 K, are fitted with 3200 K filters to emulate tungsten light. Fixtures with color mixing features or with multiple colors (if including 3200 K), are also capable of producing tungsten-like light. Color temperature may also be a factor when selecting lamps , since each is likely to have a different color temperature. Correlated color temperature [ edit ] This section is an excerpt from Correlated color temperature . [ edit ] Log-log graphs of peak emission wavelength and radiant exitance vs black-body temperature, plotted on the blue line. Red arrows show that 5780 K black bodies have 501 nm peak wavelength and 63.3 MW/m 2 radiant exitance. Correlated color temperature (CCT, T cp ) refers to the "temperature of a Planckian radiator whose perceived color most closely resembles that of a given stimulus at the same brightness and under specified viewing conditions". [ 33 ] [ 34 ] The SI unit is the Kelvin (K) . Color rendering index [ edit ] Main article: Color rendering index The CIE color rendering index (CRI) is a method to determine how well a light source's illumination of eight sample patches compares to the illumination provided by a reference source. Cited together, the CRI and CCT give a numerical estimate of what reference (ideal) light source best approximates a particular artificial light, and what the difference is. Spectral power distribution [ edit ] Characteristic spectral power distributions (SPDs) for an incandescent lamp (left) and a fluorescent lamp (right). The horizontal axes are wavelengths in nanometers , and the vertical axes show relative intensity in arbitrary units. Light sources and illuminants may be characterized by their spectral power distribution (SPD). The relative SPD curves provided by many manufacturers may have been produced using 10 nm increments or more on their spectroradiometer . [ 35 ] The result is what would seem to be a smoother (" fuller spectrum ") power distribution than the lamp actually has. Owing to their spiky distribution, much finer increments are advisable for taking measurements of fluorescent lights, and this requires more expensive equipment. Color temperature in astronomy [ edit ] Characteristic spectral power distribution of an A0V star ( T eff = 9500 K, cf. Vega ) compared to black-body spectra. The 15,000 K black-body spectrum (dashed line) matches the visible part of the stellar SPD much better than the black body of 9500 K. All spectra are normalized to intersect at 555 nanometers. In astronomy , the color temperature is defined by the local slope of the SPD at a given wavelength, or, in practice, a wavelength range. Given, for example, the color magnitudes B and V which are calibrated to be equal for an A0V star (e.g. Vega ), the stellar color temperature T C {\displaystyle T_{C}} is given by the temperature for which the color index B − V {\displaystyle B-V} of a black-body radiator fits the stellar one. Besides the B − V {\displaystyle B-V} , other color indices can be used as well. The color temperature (as well as the correlated color temperature defined above) may differ largely from the effective temperature given by the radiative flux of the stellar surface. For example, the color temperature of an A0V star is about 15000 K compared to an effective temperature of about 9500 K. [ 36 ] For most applications in astronomy (e.g., to place a star on the HR diagram or to determine the temperature of a model flux fitting an observed spectrum) the effective temperature is the quantity of interest. Various color-effective temperature relations exist in the literature. There relations also have smaller dependencies on other stellar parameters, such as the stellar metallicity and surface gravity. [ 37 ] See also [ edit ] Brightness temperature CIE 1931 color space Color balance Color metamerism Colored fire Effective temperature Kruithof curve Luminous efficacy Overillumination Whiteness References [ edit ] ↑ "Colour temperature explained | Adobe" . www.adobe.com . Retrieved June 17, 2024 . ↑ "What is Color Temperature? How Does it Affect Color Performance of the Monitor?" . BenQ . Retrieved June 17, 2024 . ↑ "Kelvin Color Temperature Chart | Lighting Color Scale at Lumens" . www.lumens.com . February 22, 2022 . Retrieved June 17, 2024 . ↑ IoP (April 17, 2023). "Colour Temperature and Its Importance in Photography" . Institute of Photography . Retrieved June 17, 2024 . ↑ Redding, Kevin (February 10, 2023). "Why Color Temperature Is Important in Filmmaking and Editing" . Backstage . Retrieved June 17, 2024 . ↑ "Correct Color Temperature When Lighting Prints" . Gintchin Fine Art . December 23, 2020 . Retrieved June 17, 2024 . ↑ "OSRAM SYVLANIA XBO" (PDF) . Archived from the original (PDF) on March 3, 2016. " ↑ "Extended Wien and Planck Loci" . Springer Nature Link . Retrieved August 13, 2026 . ↑ Wallace Roberts Stevens (1951). Principles of Lighting . Constable. ↑ Williams, David R. (2022). "Sun Fact Sheet" . NASA . Archived from the original on March 16, 2023 . Retrieved March 24, 2023 . ↑ "Principles of Remote Sensing" . CRISP . Archived from the original on July 2, 2012 . Retrieved June 18, 2012 . ↑ Chris George (2008). Mastering Digital Flash Photography: The Complete Reference Guide . Sterling . p. 11. ISBN 978-1-60059-209-6 . ↑ Using Planck's law combined with the CIE color-matching functions ↑ "The Color of Infinite Temperature" . tagteam.harvard.edu . January 16, 2022 . Retrieved April 20, 2026 . ↑ "Html Css Color HEX #94B1FF" . htmlcsscolor.com . Retrieved April 20, 2026 . ↑ "Extended Wien and Planck Loci" . Springer Nature Link . Retrieved August 13, 2026 . ↑ See the comments section of the American Medical Association recommendations to prefer LED-lighting with cooler color temperatures (i.e. warmer color).&lt;ref&gt; "AMA Issues LED Streetlighting Guidance, Controversy Ensues" . LightNowBlog.com . Archived from article the original on March 7, 2017 . Retrieved March 7, 2017 . {{ cite web }} : Check | url= value ( help ) ↑ Rüdiger Paschotta (2008). Encyclopedia of Laser Physics and Technology . Wiley-VCH. p. 219. ISBN 978-3-527-40828-3 . [ permanent dead link ] ↑ Thomas Nimz, Fredrik Hailer and Kevin Jensen (2012). "Sensors and Feedback Control of Multi-Color LED Systems" . LED Professional Review: Trends & Technologie for Future Lighting Solutions . LED Professional: 2– 5. ISSN 1993-890X . Archived from the original on April 29, 2014. ↑ Chaplin, Martin. "Water Absorption Spectrum" . Archived from the original on July 17, 2012 . Retrieved August 1, 2012 . ↑ Pope R. M., Fry E. S. (1997). "Absorption spectrum (380–700 nm) of pure water. II. Integrating cavity measurements". Applied Optics . 36 (33). Optical Society of America: 8710– 8723. Bibcode : 1997ApOpt..36.8710P . doi : 10.1364/AO.36.008710 . PMID 18264420 . S2CID 11061625 . ↑ Jerlov N. G. (1976). Marine Optics . Elsevie Oceanography Series. Vol. 14. Amsterdam: Elsevier Scientific Publishing Company. pp. 128– 129. ISBN 0-444-41490-8 . Archived from the original on December 21, 2017 . Retrieved August 1, 2012 . ↑ Kern, Chris. "Reality Check: Ambiguity and Ambivalence in Digital Color Photography" . Archived from the original on July 22, 2011 . Retrieved March 11, 2011 . 1 2 Präkel, David (February 28, 2013). Basics Photography 02: Lighting . Bloomsbury Publishing. ISBN 978-2-940447-55-8 . ↑ windows-driver-content. "HEVC 10-Bit HDR Streaming Playback Test 1" . learn.microsoft.com . Retrieved May 14, 2025 . ↑ "Auto color management in Windows 11 - Microsoft Support" . support.microsoft.com . Retrieved September 4, 2024 . ↑ "Use reference modes with your Apple display" . Apple Support . Retrieved March 30, 2025 . ↑ "Altering color dramatically with a single setting: Examining color temperature on an LCD monitor | EIZO" . www.eizoglobal.com . Archived from the original on May 21, 2025 . Retrieved June 17, 2026 . ↑ "Why do people have different eye shapes?" . BBC Science Focus Magazine . February 3, 2020 . Retrieved June 17, 2026 . ↑ "Unifying the Real-World Environment | EIZO" . www.eizoglobal.com . Archived from the original on March 5, 2026 . Retrieved June 17, 2026 . ↑ "Remote Color Grading and Reviews" . Netflix | Partner Help Center . Retrieved June 17, 2026 . ↑ Brown, Blain (September 15, 2016). Cinematography: Theory and Practice: Image Making for Cinematographers and Directors . Taylor & Francis. ISBN 978-1-317-35927-2 . ↑ CIE/IEC 17.4:1987 International Lighting Vocabulary Archived 2010-02-27 at the Wayback Machine ( ISBN 3900734070 ) ↑ Borbély, Ákos; Sámson, Árpád; Schanda, János (December 2001). "The concept of correlated colour temperature revisited" . Color Research & Application . 26 (6): 450– 457. doi : 10.1002/col.1065 . Archived from the original on February 5, 2009. ↑ Gretag's SpectroLino Archived 2006-11-10 at the Wayback Machine and X-Rite's ColorMunki Archived 2009-02-05 at the Wayback Machine have an optical resolution of 10 nm. ↑ Unsöld, Albrecht; Bodo Baschek (1999). Der neue Kosmos (6 ed.). Berlin, Heidelberg, New York: Springer. ISBN 3-540-64165-3 . ↑ Casagrande, Luca (2021). "The GALAH survey: effective temperature calibration from the InfraRed Flux Method in the Gaia system" . MNRAS . 507 (2): 2684– 2696. arXiv : 2011.02517 . Bibcode : 2021MNRAS.507.2684C . doi : 10.1093/mnras/stab2304 . Further reading [ edit ] Stroebel, Leslie; John Compton; Ira Current; Richard Zakia (2000). Basic Photographic Materials and Processes (2nd ed.). Boston: Focal Press. ISBN 0-240-80405-8 . Wyszecki, Günter; Stiles, Walter Stanley (1982). "3.11: Distribution Temperature, Color Temperature, and Correlated Color Temperature". Color Science: Concept and Methods, Quantitative Data and Formulæ . New York: Wiley. pp. 224– 229. ISBN 0-471-02106-7 . External links [ edit ] Kelvin to RGB calculator from Academo.org Boyd, Andrew. Kelvin temperature in photography at The Discerning Photographer. Charity, Mitchell. What color is a black body? sRGB values corresponding to blackbodies of varying temperature. Lindbloom, Bruce. ANSI C implementation of Robertson's method to calculate the correlated color temperature of a color in XYZ . Konica Minolta Sensing. The Language of Light Archived August 12, 2022, at the Wayback Machine . v t e Photography Equipment Camera Box camera light-field digital field instant phone pinhole press rangefinder SLR still TLR toy view Darkroom enlarger safelight Film base format holder stock available films discontinued films Filter Flash beauty dish cucoloris gobo hot shoe lens hood monolight reflector snoot softbox Lens long-focus prime zoom wide-angle fisheye swivel telephoto Manufacturers Monopod Movie projector Slide projector Tripod head Zone plate Terminology 35 mm equivalent focal length Abbreviations list Angle of view Aperture Backscatter Black and white Chromatic aberration Circle of confusion Clipping Color balance Color temperature Depth of field Depth of focus Exposure Exposure compensation Exposure value F-number Film format 35mm large medium Film speed Focal length Guide number Hyperfocal distance Lens flare Metering mode Perspective distortion Telephoto compression Photograph Photographic printing Albumen Photographic processes Reciprocity Red-eye effect Science of photography Shutter speed Sync Zebra patterning Zone System Genres Abstract Aerial Aircraft Architectural Astrophotography Banquet Candid Conceptual Conservation Cloudscape Documentary Eclipse Ethnographic Erotic Fashion Fine-art Fire Fireworks Forensic Glamour High-speed Landscape Monochrome Nature Neues Sehen Nude Photojournalism Pictorialism Pornography Portrait Post-mortem Ruins Selfie space selfie Social documentary Sports Still life Stock Straight photography Street Underwater Vernacular Wedding Wildlife Techniques Afocal Blur Bokeh Bracketing Brenizer Burst mode Combination printing Contre-jour Crittercam ( Pigeon photography ) ETTR Fill flash Focus stacking Hand-colouring Harris shutter High-speed Holography Infrared Intentional camera movement Kirlian Kite aerial Lo-fi photography Lomography Long-exposure Luminogram Macro Manipulation Mordançage Multiple exposure Multi-exposure HDR capture Night Panning Panoramic Photogram Photomontage Pre-release capture Print toning Redscale Rephotography Rollout Scanography Schlieren photography Sabattier effect Slow motion Stereoscopy Stopping down Strip Slit-scan Sprocket hole Sun printing Tilt–shift Miniature faking Time-lapse Ultraviolet Vignetting Xerography Zoom burst Composition Diagonal method Framing Headroom Lead room Rule of thirds Simplicity Golden triangle (composition) History Timeline of photography technology Albumen print Ambrotype Analog (film) photography Autochrome Lumière Calotype Camera obscura Daguerreotype Dufaycolor Heliography Lippmann plate Painted photography backdrops Photography and the law Photographic plate Salt print Tintype Visual arts Regional Albania Australia Bangladesh Canada China Colombia Denmark Greece India Japan Korea Luxembourg New Zealand Norway Philippines Serbia Slovenia Sudan Taiwan Turkey Ukraine United States Uzbekistan Vietnam Digital photography Digital camera DSLR MILC camera back Digiscoping Comparison of digital and film photography Film scanner Image sensor CMOS APS CCD Three-CCD camera Foveon X3 sensor Photo response non-uniformity Image sharing Pixel Color photography Print film Chromogenic print Reversal film Color management color space primary color CMYK color model RGB color model Photographic processing Anthotype Bleach bypass C-41 process Carbon print Collodion process Cross processing Cyanotype Developer Digital image processing Dye coupler E-6 process Fixer Gelatin silver print Gum printing Instant film K-14 process Photogravure Print permanence Push processing Salt print Stop bath Lists Largest photographs Most expensive photographs Museums devoted to one photographer Photographs considered the most important Photographers Norwegian Polish street women Photography periodicals Related Conservation and restoration of photographs film photographic plates Polaroid art Stereoscopy Say cheese v t e Lighting Concepts Accent lighting Color rendering index Color temperature Electric light Glare Light fixture Light pollution Hawaii Hong Kong Lightbulb socket Bi-pin lamp base Edison screw Luminous efficacy Task lighting Methods of generation Incandescent Regular Edison Halogen Nernst Luminescent Cathodoluminescent Electron-stimulated Chemiluminescent Electrochemiluminescence Electroluminescent field-induced polymer light-emitting transistor Fluorescent Fluorescent lamp ( compact ) Fluorescent induction Photoluminescent Laser headlamp Radioluminescence Solid-state LED lamp Combustion Acetylene/Carbide Argand Campfire Candle Carcel Diya Flare Gas Kerosene Petromax Lantern Fanous Paper Limelight Luchina Magnesium torch Oil Qulliq Rushlight Safety Tilley Torch Electric arc Carbon arc Klieg light Yablochkov candle Gas discharge Deuterium arc Neon Neon lamp Plasma Sulfur Xenon arc Xenon flash High-intensity discharge (HID) Mercury-vapor Metal-halide ceramic Hydrargyrum medium-arc iodide (HMI) Hydrargyrum quartz iodide (HQI) Sodium vapor Stationary Reflector Ellipsoidal reflector Multifaceted reflector Parabolic aluminized reflector (PAR) Aviation obstruction Balanced-arm lamp Chandelier Emergency light Gas lighting Gooseneck lamp Intelligent street lighting Light tube Marine aid to navigation light Nightlight Neon lighting Pendant light Recessed light Sconce Street light in the US Torchère Track lighting Troffer Portable Bicycle lighting Flashlight Mechanically powered Tactical Glow stick Headlamp outdoor Lantern Laser pointer Navigation light Searchlight Solar lamp Automotive Automotive light bulb types Daytime running lamp Headlamp hidden high-intensity discharge sealed beam Rear position lights Reversing lights Safety reflector retroreflector Stop lights Turn signals trafficators Display Decorative Aroma lamp Blacklight Bubble light Christmas lights Crackle tube DJ lighting Electroluminescent wire Lava lamp Marquee Plasma globe Strobe light Theatrical Cinematic Floodlight Footlight Gobo Scoop Spotlight ellipsoidal reflector Stage lighting instrument Industrial Scientific Germicidal Grow light Infrared lamp Stroboscope Tanning Related topics Battlefield illumination Bioluminescence Laser Light art Luminous gemstones Signal lamp Sources Reflected v t e Color topics Index Color science Color physics Electromagnetic spectrum Light Rainbow Visible Spectral colors Chromophore Structural coloration Animal coloration Color of chemicals Water Spectral power distribution Colorimetry Color perception Chromesthesia Sonochromatism Color blindness Achromatopsia Dichromacy Color calibration Color constancy Color task Color code Color temperature Color vision test Evolution of color vision Impossible colors Metamerism Opponent process Afterimage Unique hues Qualia Tetrachromacy The dress Color psychology Color symbolism Color preferences Lüscher color test Kruithof curve Political color National colors Chromophobia Chromotherapy Color reproduction Color photography Color balance Color cast Digital image processing Color management Color printing Multi-primary color display Quattron Color model additive RGB subtractive CMYK Color space Image color transfer Color philosophy Color scheme Color tool Monochromatic colors Black and white Grisaille Complementary colors Analogous colors Achromatic colors (Neutral) Polychromatic colors Light-on-dark Web colors Tinctures in heraldry Color theory Color mixing Primary color Secondary color Chromaticity Color solid Color wheel Color triangle Color analysis (fashion) Color realism (art style) On Vision and Colours (Schopenhauer) Theory of Colours (Goethe) Color dimensions Hue Dichromatism Colorfulness Pastel colors Luminance Lightness Darkness Brightness Iridescence Fluorescence Grayscale Tint, shade and tone Color terms Basic English terms Red Orange Yellow Green Cyan Blue Purple Magenta Pink Brown White Gray Black Cultural differences Linguistic relativity and the color naming debate Blue–green distinction in language Color history Black-and-white dualism Blue in culture Color in Chinese culture Traditional colors of Japan Human skin color Lists Alphabetical List of colors: A–F G–M N–Z Full list List of colors by shade List of color palettes List of color spaces Color chart List of RAL colors List of web colors Shades of: Red Orange Yellow Green Cyan Blue Violet Purple Magenta Pink Brown White Gray Black Color organizations Pantone Crayola crayons history Color Marketing Group Color Association of the United States International Colour Authority International Commission on Illumination (CIE) International Color Consortium International Colour Association Related Vision Contrast Lighting Category Index Authority control databases GND Retrieved from " https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Color_temperature&oldid=1375614105 " Categories : Color Lighting Hidden categories: Articles with short description Short description matches Wikidata Use American English from March 2021 All Wikipedia articles written in American English Use mdy dates from March 2021 Articles needing additional references from June 2012 All articles needing additional references Inconsistent articles CS1 errors: URL All articles with dead external links Articles with dead external links from December 2023 Articles with permanently dead external links All articles with unsourced statements Articles with unsourced statements from August 2012 Articles needing additional references from June 2025 Webarchive template wayback links Articles with excerpts This page was last edited on 18 September 2026, at 22:16 (UTC) . Page was rendered with Parsoid . Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike 4.0 License ; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy . Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc. , a non-profit organization. Privacy policy About Wikipedia Disclaimers Contact Wikipedia Legal & safety contacts Code of Conduct Developers Statistics Cookie statement Mobile view Search Search Toggle the table of contents Color temperature 34 languages Add topic