Crepuscular rays - Wikipedia Jump to content Main menu Main menu move to sidebar hide Navigation Main page Contents Current events Random article About Wikipedia Contact us Contribute Help Learn to edit Community portal Recent changes Upload file Special pages Search Search Appearance Donate Create account Log in Personal tools Donate Create account Log in Contents move to sidebar hide (Top) 1 Gallery 2 See also 3 References Toggle the table of contents Crepuscular rays 32 languages العربية Беларуская Български Bosanski Чӑвашла Dansk Deutsch Esperanto Español Euskara فارسی Français Magyar Հայերեն Bahasa Indonesia Italiano 日本語 한국어 Lietuvių Bahasa Melayu Nederlands Polski پښتو Português Русский Svenska தமிழ் Українська Tiếng Việt 文言 粵語 中文 Edit links Article Talk English Read Edit View history Tools Tools move to sidebar hide Actions Read Edit View history General What links here Related changes Upload file Permanent link Page information Cite this page Get shortened URL Switch to legacy parser Expand all Edit interlanguage links Print/export Download as PDF Printable version In other projects Wikimedia Commons Wikidata item Appearance move to sidebar hide Text Small Standard Large This page always uses small font size Width Standard Wide The content is as wide as possible for your browser window. Color Automatic Light Dark This page is always in light mode. From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia Sunbeams that originate when the Sun appears to be just below the horizon Sunlight shining through clouds , giving rise to crepuscular rays over Lake Hāwea , New Zealand Crepuscular rays , sometimes colloquially known as god rays , twilight rays , or Jacob's ladder , are visible shafts of sunlight that originate when the Sun appears to be just above or below a layer of clouds , during the twilight period. [ 1 ] [ 2 ] Crepuscular rays are often observed as visible light beams passing through gaps in clouds, and are especially prominent when the contrast between light and dark is most obvious. [ 3 ] The term "crepuscular" comes from the Latin word crepusculum , meaning "twilight". [ 4 ] During twilight, Crepuscular rays can commonly exhibit an orange or reddish coloration. This is due to the Rayleigh scattering phenomenon, in which as light travels through the atmosphere, it encounters particles and gases which scatters short-wavelength (blue) light more strongly than longer wavelengths (orange and red). During dawn and dusk , sunlight travels at low solar angles and through a greater thickness of the atmosphere - about 40 times more air than when the Sun is overhead at midday - resulting in a more pronounced warm colouration in sunbeams . [ 5 ] Crepuscular rays are in fact almost parallel to one another; however they appear to radiate outwards, due to a perspective effect, similar to how parallel lines of a long road appear to meet in the distance. [ 6 ] [ 7 ] [ 8 ] Loosely, the term crepuscular rays is sometimes extended to the general phenomenon of rays of sunlight that appear to converge at a point in the sky, irrespective of time of day. [ 9 ] [ 10 ] A rare related phenomenon are anticrepuscular rays which can appear at the same time (and coloration) as crepuscular rays but in the opposite direction to the setting sun (east rather than west). Gallery [ edit ] Orbital view of crepuscular rays Sunset at Heron Island, Queensland , Australia (April 2023) Crepuscular rays before sunset, Tikveš Crepuscular rays through dark rain clouds over suburban New South Wales , Australia See also [ edit ] Caustic (optics) – Envelope of light rays reflected or refracted by a curved surface/object Earth's shadow – Shadow that Earth casts through its atmosphere and into outer space Foreglow – Whitish or rosy light during twilight or after sunset Pages displaying short descriptions of redirect targets Jacob's ladder – Ladder in Genesis joining Earth to heaven Pages displaying short descriptions of redirect targets Mie scattering – Scattering of an electromagnetic plane wave by a sphere Tyndall effect – Scattering of light by tiny particles in a colloidal suspension References [ edit ] ↑ Plait, Phil. "Sunbeams and the Belt of Venus Are Delightful Twilight Sights" . Scientific American . Retrieved 2026-04-14 . ↑ "Crepuscular rays are sunrays in twilight skies" . EarthSky . 2024-05-18 . Retrieved 2026-04-14 . ↑ Naylor, John (2002). Out of the Blue: A 24-Hour Skywatcher's Guide . Cambridge University Press . pp. 77– 79. ISBN 9780521809252 . ↑ Edens, Harald. "Crepuscular rays" . weatherscapes.com . Retrieved 2011-11-01 . ↑ "Crepuscular Rays and Light Scattering - NASA Science" . 2022-07-17 . Retrieved 2026-04-13 . ↑ "Crepuscular Rays: sun rays converging on the horizon" . ww2010.atmos.uiuc.edu . ↑ "Speculative Science" . The Guardian . Retrieved 2026-04-13 . ↑ "Gallery: Crepuscular rays" . BBC Weather . 2017-01-11 . Retrieved 2026-04-13 . ↑ "Crepuscular Rays" . Atmospheric Optics . Retrieved 29 September 2025 . ↑ "Weather Facts: Crepuscular rays | weatheronline.co.uk" . Crepuscular rays at Wikipedia's sister projects : Definitions from Wiktionary Media from Commons hide v t e The Sun Internal structure Core Radiative zone Tachocline Convection zone Atmosphere Photosphere Supergranulation Granule Faculae Sunspot Ellerman bomb Chromosphere Plage Spicule Moreton wave Corona Transition region Coronal hole Coronal loop Coronal mass ejection Nanoflare Prominence Helmet streamer Supra-arcade downflows Alfvén surface Moss Variation Solar cycle List of solar cycles Active region Solar maximum Solar minimum Sunspot number Solar wind Solar wind turbulence Magnetic switchback Flare Helioseismology Heliosphere Corotating interaction region Current sheet Termination shock Heliosheath Heliopause Bow shock Phenomena Solar dynamo Solar energy Solar neutrino Solar radio emission Sunlight Spectral class G-type main-sequence star Research Heliophysics list of missions Solar observation Solar physics Solar telescope SSM Missions to the Sun In culture Eclipses in culture Solar deity list Solar time Sun in fiction Related Eclipse Lunar eclipse Solar System Space climate Space weather Star Category This optics -related article is a stub . You can help Wikipedia by adding missing information . v t e This article related to the Sun is a stub . You can help Wikipedia by adding missing information . v t e Retrieved from " https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Crepuscular_rays&oldid=1377043841 " Categories : Atmospheric optical phenomena Sun Optics stubs Sun stubs Hidden categories: Articles with short description Short description is different from Wikidata Pages displaying short descriptions of redirect targets via Module:Annotated link All stub articles This page was last edited on 27 September 2026, at 16:55 (UTC) . Page was rendered with Parsoid . Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike 4.0 License ; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy . Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc. , a non-profit organization. Privacy policy About Wikipedia Disclaimers Contact Wikipedia Legal & safety contacts Code of Conduct Developers Statistics Cookie statement Mobile view Edit preview settings Search Search Toggle the table of contents Crepuscular rays 32 languages Add topic