reccomended texts for lighting... - Lighting for Film & Video - Cinematography.com Jump to content Existing user? Sign In Sign In Remember me Not recommended on shared computers Sign In Forgot your password? Create Account Browse Home Forums Marketplace Books Guidelines Online Users Premium Membership More Activity All Activity Search Our Picks More Camera Systems Arri Bell & Howell Bolex Blackmagic Design Canon Cinema Products Dalsa Eclair IMAX Mitchell Panasonic Panavision RED Sony USSR JVC Super-8 16mm 35mm More More This Topic Everywhere This Forum This Topic Status Updates Topics Pages Members Discover more Vintage film lenses Cinematography workshops Filmmaking equipment guides Lighting for Film & Video All Activity Home Forums Cinematography Forums Lighting for Film & Video reccomended texts for lighting... reccomended texts for lighting... By Sean Stiegemeier September 2, 2004 in Lighting for Film & Video Vintage film lenses Share https://cinematography.com/index.php?/forums/topic/2235-reccomended-texts-for-lighting/ More sharing options... Followers 0 Recommended Posts Sean Stiegemeier Posted September 2, 2004 Sean Stiegemeier Basic Member 54 Posted September 2, 2004 Do any of you have any books that you would reccomend on lights? I dont mean actuall lighting techniques but technichal info and descriptions of various lights. I need to expand my technical knowledge of lighting and electric. oscar jimenez Posted September 2, 2004 oscar jimenez Basic Member 320 Cinematographer PANAMA, REPUBLIC OF PANAMA Posted September 2, 2004 "MOtion Picture and Video Lightning" Blair Brown Christian Appelt Posted September 2, 2004 Christian Appelt Basic Member 468 Posted September 2, 2004 My favourites: Professional Cinematography This is a reprint of a 1964 book that deals with the traditional techniques of studio cinematography. It's a great text, and most of the techniques can be modified and applied to almost any kind of filmmaking style (except doing shaky pseudo reality DV &lt;_&lt; ). Check out the DVD of INHERIT THE WIND (1960) to see what great lighting job the author did in black&white. Painting with Light (John Alton) This is considered a classic, but it is to be taken with a grain of salt. If you want to learn how to light black&white, it's a great text. Although John Alton is generally considered to be a master of excentric color photography, I feel his work for AN AMERICAN IN PARIS (long ballet sequence) or THE BROTHERS KARAMAZOV is overrated, cinematography should IMHO not be self-concious because it has to serve the storytelling. But for learning black&white cinematography PAINTING WITH LIGHT is a fine book. Premium Member David Mullen ASC Posted September 2, 2004 David Mullen ASC Premium Member 22.5k Cinematographer Los Angeles Premium Member Posted September 2, 2004 "Professional Lighting Handbook" by Carlson is another good reference book. Premium Member Greg Gross Posted September 2, 2004 Greg Gross Premium Member 869 Harrisburg,PA Premium Member Posted September 2, 2004 Film Lighting(talks with hollywood's cinematographers,gaffers) Vintage film lenses by Kris Malkeiewicz-Fireside Book,Simon & Schuster, ASC store has it. Masters of Light (conversations with contemporary cinematographers) by Dennis Schaefer and Larry Salvato University of California Press, ASC store has it. If you are not familiar with ASC store you can find it at: www.theasc.com Carlos M. Icaza Posted September 2, 2004 Carlos M. Icaza Basic Member 221 Cinematographer San Jose, CA Posted September 2, 2004 All the books referenced here are excellent books on lighting and cinematography. One book that I found interesting is "Light Fantastic: The Art and Design of Stage Lighting by Max Keller". It is about lighting for theater, but unlike some of the cinematography books, explains the moods of each color and its color meaning. I really enjoyed having it in my collection. The only drawback, it carries a hefty price tag. Also, even though it is for theater lighting, it gives you (at least for me) perspective on what light to use to motivate a scene, etc. And if you want to learn more about lighting, check out the photography books on how to light for glamour, b&w, portrait, how to light for commercial photography. Some photography books for lighting for architectural photos give you some insight on how to light house interiors, externals etc. You said, "technichal info and descriptions of various lights. I need to expand my technical knowledge of lighting and electric." Check out, Set Lighting Technicians Handbook by Harry C Box Motion Picture And Video Lighitng by Blain Brown C.- Premium Member Greg Gross Posted September 3, 2004 Greg Gross Premium Member 869 Harrisburg,PA Premium Member Posted September 3, 2004 Also one very good source I forgot about: KODAK- DVD, Art of Lighting For Film Vintage film lenses Available at the ASC STORE (you can get elsewhwere. I just personally like to support the ASC) I think this is an excellent instructional dvd. Best Regards, Happy Shooting! Kim Sargenius Posted September 4, 2004 Kim Sargenius Basic Member 72 Cinematographer Posted September 4, 2004 "Set Lighting Technician's Handbook" -- Harry C. Box. Premium Member Greg Gross Posted September 5, 2004 Greg Gross Premium Member 869 Harrisburg,PA Premium Member Posted September 5, 2004 Very Good Article On Lighting In Shutterbug Magazine,Oct. Issue Now On Newstands. Making One Light Two by Steve Bedell Page 60, covers quanity,quality,direction,color,big light source. Get the main and fill from one source. Create an account or sign in to comment You need to be a member in order to leave a comment Create an account Sign up for a new account in our community. It's easy! Register a new account Sign in Already have an account? Sign in here. Sign In Now Share https://cinematography.com/index.php?/forums/topic/2235-reccomended-texts-for-lighting/ More sharing options... Followers 0 Go to topic listing Forum Sponsors --> PREMIUM MEMBERSHIP ADVERTISING INFO All Activity Home Forums Cinematography Forums Lighting for Film & Video reccomended texts for lighting... Privacy Policy Contact Us Cookies Cinematography.com Powered by Invision Community × Existing user? Sign In Create Account Browse Back Home Forums Marketplace Books Guidelines Online Users Premium Membership Activity Back All Activity Search Our Picks Camera Systems Back Arri Bell & Howell Bolex Blackmagic Design Canon Cinema Products Dalsa Eclair IMAX Mitchell Panasonic Panavision RED Sony USSR JVC Super-8 16mm 35mm × Create New...