Football Strategy - Upcoming Football Manager Game - Community Showcases - Unity Discussions Skip to last reply Skip to top Skip to main content Products Solutions Resources Community Learn Support Sign Up Log In ​ ​ Discussions Home My bookmarks Search Filter Latest Topics Top Topics Users Groups Badges About Guidelines Categories Getting Started 2D Animation Asset & Content Management Scene & World Building Unity Editor AI & Machine Learning Scripting Performance & Profiling DevOps LiveOps Monetization & Growth Multiplayer & Networking Unity Hub All categories Tags Bug Conversation Feedback Official Question All tags Community Links Blog Issue Tracker Learn Documentation Unity Asset Store User Groups Advocates Unity Pulse Events Made with Unity Play LinkedIn YouTube X (formerly Twitter) Discord Instagram Twitch ​ ​ Football Strategy - Upcoming Football Manager Game Community Showcases You have selected 0 posts. select all cancel selecting Mar 2013 1 / 2 Mar 2013 Jun 2013 post by lanfeust on Mar 7, 2013 lanfeust Mar 2013 Greetings Unity Community, I would first like to personally thank Unity for allowing me the opportunity in showing off Football Strategy. Football Strategy [FS] is a innovative football manager game currently in it’s early stages. You will take the role as a manager of your own football club, manage it and compete with thousands of real opponents in league games, friendlies and tournaments. [FS] is focus on being a challenging strategy game with in-depth game-play to offer the ultimate realistic simulation experience. We plan to offer many unique features and expand further based on the community feedback; which is why we urge you to register to follow our development and have open discussions using our in-game forum. For more information visit our official website at: http://footballstrategy.org [FS] 3D simulator will be using Unity 3D web-player. You can view a glance at this feature in our trailer: http://youtu.be/KKmrpuYPXj4 As we get near the Beta date, we will show off another video focusing more on the simulator. ​ ​ 2.3k views 2 links 3 months later post by Claudio84 on Jun 15, 2013 Claudio84 Jun 2013 compliments for your videogame, i love football and work in football, so i made good luck for footballstrategy ​ ​ Reply Related topics Topic list, column headers with buttons are sortable. Topic Replies Views Created Activity Football U on the iPhone!! Community Showcases 1 1.9k Jul 2009 Jul 2009 I wanna create a game, help Community Showcases 1 2.0k Aug 2016 Aug 2016 Unity for making Football Manager-like game News & General Discussion 5 6.5k Feb 2014 Feb 2014 Manager style game News & General Discussion 1 1.1k Sep 2012 Sep 2012 FutWeb: MMO soccer game - Engine: Unity Community Showcases 2 5.2k Feb 2012 Feb 2012 Copyright © 2026 Unity Technologies Legal Privacy Policy Cookies Do Not Sell or Share My Personal Information Your Privacy Choices (Cookie Settings) "Unity", Unity logos, and other Unity trademarks are trademarks or registered trademarks of Unity Technologies or its affiliates in the U.S. and elsewhere ( more info here ). Other names or brands are trademarks of their respective owners. This website uses cookies or similar technologies to enhance user experience and to analyze performance and traffic on our website. We also share information about your use of our site with our social media, advertising, and analytics partners. Cookie Settings Reject All Accept Cookies Do Not Sell My Personal Information Opt-Out Request Honored Do Not Sell My Personal Information Your Privacy Functional Cookies Performance Cookies Do Not Sell or Share My Personal Information/ Opt-Out of Targeted Advertising Strictly Necessary Cookies Your Privacy When you visit our website, we store cookies on your browser to collect information. The information collected might relate to you, your preferences or your device, and is mostly used to make the site work as you expect it to and to provide a more personalized web experience. However, you can choose not to allow certain types of cookies, which may impact your experience of the site and the services we are able to offer. Click on the different category headings to find out more and change our default settings according to your preference. You cannot opt-out of our First Party Strictly Necessary Cookies as they are deployed in order to ensure the proper functioning of our website (such as prompting the cookie banner and remembering your settings, to log into your account, to redirect you when you log out, etc.). For more information about the First and Third Party Cookies used please follow this link. More information Functional Cookies Functional Cookies Active These cookies enable the website to provide enhanced functionality and personalisation. They may be set by us or by third party providers whose services we have added to our pages. If you do not allow these cookies then some or all of these services may not function properly. Cookies Details Performance Cookies Performance Cookies Active These cookies allow us to count visits and traffic sources so we can measure and improve the performance of our site. They help us to know which pages are the most and least popular and see how visitors move around the site. All information these cookies collect is aggregated and therefore anonymous. If you do not allow these cookies we will not know when you have visited our site, and will not be able to monitor its performance. Cookies Details Do Not Sell or Share My Personal Information/ Opt-Out of Targeted Advertising Do Not Sell or Share My Personal Information/ Opt-Out of Targeted Advertising Active Targeting Cookies Switch Label label These cookies may be set through our site by our advertising partners. They may be used by those companies to build a profile of your interests and show you relevant adverts on other sites. They do not store directly personal information, but are based on uniquely identifying your browser and internet device. If you do not allow these cookies, you will experience less targeted advertising. Some 3rd party video providers do not allow video views without targeting cookies. If you are experiencing difficulty viewing a video, you will need to set your cookie preferences for targeting to yes if you wish to view videos from these providers. Unity does not control this. Cookies Details Strictly Necessary Cookies Always Active These cookies are necessary for the website to function and cannot be switched off in our systems. They are usually only set in response to actions made by you which amount to a request for services, such as setting your privacy preferences, logging in or filling in forms. You can set your browser to block or alert you about these cookies, but some parts of the site will not then work. These cookies do not store any personally identifiable information. Cookies Details Back Button Cookie List Filter Button Consent Leg.Interest checkbox label label checkbox label label checkbox label label Clear checkbox label label Apply Cancel Confirm my choices Reject All Allow all